# ADS1256 ADC

## Clock 
External clock required for continuous conversion. Either crystal oscillator or some other clock source. Speeds specified in datasheet are for a 7.68 MHz clock.  

## Conversion

Falling edge of ~DRDY indicates conversion finished. Send RDATA to begin conversion. ~DRDY goes high either during conversion time or after all data has been read, whichever is sooner. 

## Reading data

### Single
Send RDATA command on DIN while ~DRDY is _low_. Wait and pause SCLK for t<sub>6</sub> (see datasheet) and then read 24 bits (MSB first) on DOUT. 

### Continuous
Send RDATAC after ~DRDY goes low. Wait t<sub>6</sub>. Read 24 bits on DOUT. Subsequent bits will be written by ADC on DOUT as soon as ~DRDY goes low. Note SCLK still has to be clocked, but data will be available as soon as ~DRDY goes low, not after  t<sub>6</sub>. Stop continuous conversion by writing SDATAC or RESET. 

### Standby / One-shot 
Issue STANDBY. ADC will go into low-power standby mode. Keep SCLK low while ~CS is low, otherwise standby will be interrupted. If ~CS is high, SCLK can be modulated. Issue WAKEUP to exit standby, then read as normal. 

## Register managment
Perform synchronisation (see below) after changing register values.

### Writing to registers
Consists of 4 bytes: 2 command bytes, followed by 2 data bytes. 

The 1st command byte is `0101 rrrr`, where `rrrr` is the address of the register to be written to. 

The 2nd command byte is `0000 nnnn`, where `nnnn` is the number of bytes to be written minus 1. 

### Reading from registers
1st command byte is `0001 rrrr`. 

2nd command byte is `0000 nnnn`. 

Wait t<sub>6</sub> after writing the command bytes before reading the data. 

## Synchronisation
Issue SYNC, then WAKEUP.

## Registers 

### STATUS
General settings for ADC. Also contains read-only ID bits and duplicates ~DRDY in bit 0. Set bit 3 to 0 for MSB-first data out, 1 for LSB. Set bit 2 for auto-calibration. Set bit 1 for analogue input buffer enabled. 

### MUX 
Channel selection. Value of bits 6-4 inclusive define active positive channel. Bit 7 selects AINCOM. 6-4 are ignored if AINCOM selected. Value of bits 2-0 define active negative channel. Bit 3 selects AINCOM, behaviour as above. 

### ADCON
Controls clock output, sensor detection, and gain amplifier. Bit 7 0 read-only. Bits 6-5 define clock output and division (00 = clock out off). Bits 4-3 control sensor detection, don't think we care about this. Bits 2-0 define gain amplification. If binary value is $n$, then gain is $2^n$. 

## DRATE
Controls data rate, based on 7.68 MHz clock. Valid values in datasheet. Rates scale linearly with clock rate. 

## IO
Controls GPIO pins. Not relevant for us. 

## OFC[0-2]
Three-byte value representing offset calibration. OFC0 is least significant byte. 

## FSC[0-2]
Three-byte value representing full-scale calibration. OFC0 is least significant byte. 

### 

## Misc.


Issue SELFCAL command to calibrate device after all voltages have settled. 

Command definitions are in Table 24 of the datasheet. 

The value of t<sub>6</sub> is $ 50 \times \tau_\text{CLKIN}$ 
